Update to JSON:API v1.1 (#461)
Materials-Consortia/OPTIMADE: optimade.rst

  :field:`meta` SHOULD also include these fields:

  - **schema**: a `JSON:API links object <http://jsonapi.org/format/1.1/#document-links>`__ that points to a schema for the response.
    If it is a string, or a dictionary containing no :field:`meta` field, the provided URL MUST point at an `OpenAPI <https://swagger.io/specification/>`__ schema.
    It is possible that future versions of this specification allows for alternative schema types.
    Hence, if the :field:`meta` field of the JSON:API links object is provided and contains a field :field:`schema_type` that is not equal to the string :field-val:`OpenAPI` the client MUST not handle failures to parse the schema or to validate the response against the schema as errors.

>     Note: this field is deprecated in favor of the standard way of specifying the response schema in JSON:API in the :field:`describedby` subfield of the top level :field:`links` field.

Reviewer: Is this our first deprecated field? It might be helpful to clarify the expectations here. Currently missing off `meta->schema` results in an "optional" level failure in the validator, presumably now it is deprecated this shouldn't be the case, but it still feels weird to have it under a "SHOULD" heading here.

Author: Yes, as far as I know, this is the first thing we deprecate. I agree that the field should be demoted to MAY if we do.

Is there a reason not deprecate this field? Pointing people to the official JSON:API field for schemas is surely the right thing to do for interoperability?

Author: Ok, I have demoted schema to MAY and made the deprecation even more clear.

  :field:`meta` SHOULD also include these fields:

>   - **schema**: a `JSON API links object <http://jsonapi.org/format/1.0/#document-links>`__ that points to a schema for the response.

Reviewer 2: Why is `schema` removed from the specification? Text below says that it is deprecated, but do we remove deprecated properties from the specification?

Reviewer 2: Sorry, my bad, did not read the whole changeset.

         // ...
       }

  - **schema**: a `JSON:API links object <http://jsonapi.org/format/1.1/#document-links>`__ that points to a schema for the response.
    If it is a string, or a dictionary containing no :field:`meta` field, the provided URL MUST point at an `OpenAPI <https://swagger.io/specification/>`__ schema.

>     It is possible that future versions of this specification allows for alternative schema types.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    It is possible that future versions of this specification allow for alternative schema types.
```

Reviewer 2: Or maybe even "will allow".

         // ...
       }

>   :field:`meta` MAY also include these deprecated fields:
> 

Author: ```suggestion
  :field:`meta` MAY also include these deprecated fields:

```

  - **schema**: a `JSON:API links object <http://jsonapi.org/format/1.1/#document-links>`__ that points to a schema for the response.
    If it is a string, or a dictionary containing no :field:`meta` field, the provided URL MUST point at an `OpenAPI <https://swagger.io/specification/>`__ schema.
    It is possible that future versions of this specification allows for alternative schema types.
    Hence, if the :field:`meta` field of the JSON:API links object is provided and contains a field :field:`schema_type` that is not equal to the string :field-val:`OpenAPI` the client MUST NOT handle failures to parse the schema or to validate the response against the schema as errors.

>     *Deprecated:* the field was previously RECOMMENDED in all responses, but is now deprecated in favor of the standard way of specifying a response schema in JSON:API through the :field:`describedby` subfield of the top-level :field:`links` field.

Author: Workshop: Rephrase to say that this duplicates links->describedby , but remove the deprecation note.

Author: ```suggestion
    Note: the field was previously RECOMMENDED in all responses, but is now demoted to being OPTIONAL since there now is a standard way of specifying a response schema in JSON:API through the :field:`describedby` subfield of the top-level :field:`links` field.
```

        // ...
      }

  The :field:`links` field SHOULD include the following links objects:

  - **describedby**: a links object giving the URL for a schema that describes the response.

>     The URL SHOULD resolve into a JSON formatted response returning a JSON object with top level :field:`$schema` and/or :field:`$id` fields that can be used by the client to identify the schema format.

Reviewer: I just want to clarify this use. JSON:API says (in two slighlty different places):

```
describedby: a [link](https://jsonapi.org/format/#document-links-link) to a description document (e.g. OpenAPI or JSON Schema) for the link target.
```

and also

```
describedby: a [link](https://jsonapi.org/format/#document-links-link) to a description document (e.g. OpenAPI or JSON Schema) for the current document.
```

The example they use is then

```
"describedby": "http://example.com/schemas/article-comments",
```

Do we need to worry that presumably the schemas we intend on linking to are the general OPTIMADE OpenAPI schemas, and not some specific one for the current types in the response?

Author: Your two quotes are for two different things. Your first is inside any "link object" (note the singular) and your second is directly inside for the top-level "links object" (not the plural). So, here it is the second that apply.

To me it is clear that the response must validate against the (possibly general) OpenAPI schema in the sense that one uses the part of the OpenAPI schema that describes the endpoint response that was just requested. Is there any other possible (sensible) interpretation?

Reviewer: > To me it is clear that the response must validate against the (possibly very general) OpenAPI schema in the sense that one uses the part of the OpenAPI schema that describes the endpoint response that was just requested. Is there any other possible (sensible) interpretation?

No, I think you're right, I was thrown by the same key being inside the links object but this is fine with me now.

        // ...
      }

  It is RECOMMENDED that the :field:`links` field include the following links objects:

  - **self**: a links object giving the URL from which the response was obtained.

>   - **describedby**: a links object giving the URL for a schema that describes the response.

Reviewer: We've gone from `meta` SHOULD include `schema` to a recommendation that `isdescribedby` is in `links`. Do we need to strengthen this here, e.g., `links` SHOULD include `isdescribedby`?

Author: I may misunderstand your point here; but according to RFC2119 "RECOMMENDED" and "SHOULD" are on the same level. I'd be happy to change RECOMMENDED into SHOULD if you prefer?

        // ...
      }

  The :field:`links` field SHOULD include the following links objects:

  - **describedby**: a links object giving the URL for a schema that describes the response.
    The URL SHOULD resolve into a JSON formatted response returning a JSON object with top level :field:`$schema` and/or :field:`$id` fields that can be used by the client to identify the schema format.

    Note: this field is the standard facility in JSON:API to communicate a response schema.
    It overlaps in function with the field :field:`schema` in the top level :field:`meta` field.

>     Hence, the latter is deprecated.

Reviewer: Also need to remove deprecation here

>     Hence, the latter is deprecated.

Author: ```suggestion
```

        // ...
      }

  The :field:`links` field SHOULD include the following links objects:

>   - **self**: a links object giving the URL from which the response was obtained.

Author: Resolved.

  - **describedby**: a links object giving the URL for a schema that describes the response.
    The URL SHOULD resolve into a JSON formatted response returning a JSON object with top level :field:`$schema` and/or :field:`$id` fields that can be used by the client to identify the schema format.

    Note: this field is the standard facility in JSON:API to communicate a response schema.

>     It overlaps to a degree with the field :field:`schema` in the top level :field:`meta` field.

Author: ```suggestion
    It overlaps in function with the field :field:`schema` in the top level :field:`meta` field.
```

    - **name**: name of the implementation.
    - **version**: version string of the current implementation.
    - **homepage**: a `JSON API link <http://jsonapi.org/format/1.1/#document-links>`__, pointing to the homepage of the implementation.
    - **source\_url**: a `JSON API link <http://jsonapi.org/format/1.1/#document-links>`__ pointing to the implementation source, either downloadable archive or version control system.

    - **maintainer**: a dictionary providing details about the maintainer of the implementation, MUST contain the single field:

      - **email** with the maintainer's email address.

    - **issue\_tracker**: a `JSON API link <http://jsonapi.org/format/1.1/#document-links>`__ pointing to the implementation's issue tracker.

>     

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

       ]
     }

- **@context**: A JSON-LD context that enables interpretation of data in the response as linked data.
  If provided, it SHOULD be one of the following:
  - An object conforming to a JSON-LD standard, which includes a :field:`@version` field specifying the version of the standard.
  - A string containing a URL that resolves to such an object.

- **jsonapi**: A `JSON:API object <https://jsonapi.org/format/1.1/#document-jsonapi-object>`__.
  The :field:`version` subfield SHOULD be :field-val:`"1.1"`.
  The :field:`meta` subfield SHOULD be included and contain the following subfields:

  - **api**: A string with the value "OPTIMADE".

>   - **api-version**: A string with the full version of the optimade standard that the processing and response adheres to.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - **api-version**: A string with the full version of the OPTIMADE standard that the processing and response adheres to.
```

         // ...
       }

  - **schema**: a `JSON:API links object <http://jsonapi.org/format/1.1/#document-links>`__ that points to a schema for the response.
    If it is a string, or a dictionary containing no :field:`meta` field, the provided URL MUST point at an `OpenAPI <https://swagger.io/specification/>`__ schema.
    It is possible that future versions of this specification allow for alternative schema types.
    Hence, if the :field:`meta` field of the JSON:API links object is provided and contains a field :field:`schema_type` that is not equal to the string :field-val:`OpenAPI` the client MUST NOT handle failures to parse the schema or to validate the response against the schema as errors.

>     **Note**: The :field:`schema` field was previously RECOMMENDED in all responses, but is now demoted to being OPTIONAL since there now is a standard way of specifying a response schema in JSON:API through the :field:`describedby` subfield of the top-level :field:`links` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      **Note**: The :field:`schema` field was previously RECOMMENDED in all responses, but is now demoted to being OPTIONAL since there now is a standard way of specifying a response schema in JSON:API through the :field:`describedby` subfield of the top-level :field:`links` field.
```

         // ...
       }

  - **schema**: a `JSON:API links object <http://jsonapi.org/format/1.1/#document-links>`__ that points to a schema for the response.
    If it is a string, or a dictionary containing no :field:`meta` field, the provided URL MUST point at an `OpenAPI <https://swagger.io/specification/>`__ schema.
    It is possible that future versions of this specification allow for alternative schema types.
    Hence, if the :field:`meta` field of the JSON:API links object is provided and contains a field :field:`schema_type` that is not equal to the string :field-val:`OpenAPI` the client MUST NOT handle failures to parse the schema or to validate the response against the schema as errors.

>     Note: the field was previously RECOMMENDED in all responses, but is now demoted to being OPTIONAL since there now is a standard way of specifying a response schema in JSON:API through the :field:`describedby` subfield of the top-level :field:`links` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    **Note**
    The field was previously RECOMMENDED in all responses, but is now demoted to being OPTIONAL since there now is a standard way of specifying a response schema in JSON:API through the :field:`describedby` subfield of the top-level :field:`links` field.
```

>     **Note**: the field was previously RECOMMENDED in all responses, but is now demoted to being OPTIONAL since there now is a standard way of specifying a response schema in JSON:API through the :field:`describedby` subfield of the top-level :field:`links` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > **Note**
    > The :field:`schema` field was previously RECOMMENDED in all responses, but is now demoted to being OPTIONAL since there now is a standard way of specifying a response schema in JSON:API through the :field:`describedby` subfield of the top-level :field:`links` field.
```

         // ...
       }

  - **schema**: a `JSON:API links object <http://jsonapi.org/format/1.1/#document-links>`__ that points to a schema for the response.
    If it is a string, or a dictionary containing no :field:`meta` field, the provided URL MUST point at an `OpenAPI <https://swagger.io/specification/>`__ schema.
    It is possible that future versions of this specification allow for alternative schema types.
    Hence, if the :field:`meta` field of the JSON:API links object is provided and contains a field :field:`schema_type` that is not equal to the string :field-val:`OpenAPI` the client MUST NOT handle failures to parse the schema or to validate the response against the schema as errors.

> 
>     > **Note**
>     > The :field:`schema` field was previously RECOMMENDED in all responses, but is now demoted to being OPTIONAL since there now is a standard way of specifying a response schema in JSON:API through the :field:`describedby` subfield of the top-level :field:`links` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    **Note**: The :field:`schema` field was previously RECOMMENDED in all responses, but is now demoted to being OPTIONAL since there now is a standard way of specifying a response schema in JSON:API through the :field:`describedby` subfield of the top-level :field:`links` field.
```

The response MAY also return resources related to the primary data in the field:

> - **links**: `JSON:API links <http://jsonapi.org/format/1.1/#document-links>`__ is REQUIRED for implementing pagination.
> - **links**: a `JSON API links object <http://jsonapi.org/format/1.1/#document-links>`__ is REQUIRED for implementing pagination.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **links**: a `JSON API links object <http://jsonapi.org/format/1.1/#document-links>`__ is REQUIRED for implementing pagination.
```

Introduced in my failed attempt to rebase in the web editor

        // ...
      }

  The :field:`links` field SHOULD include the following links objects:

  - **describedby**: a links object giving the URL for a schema that describes the response.
    The URL SHOULD resolve into a JSON formatted response returning a JSON object with top level :field:`$schema` and/or :field:`$id` fields that can be used by the client to identify the schema format.

>     Note: this field is the standard facility in JSON:API to communicate a response schema.
>     It overlaps in function with the field :field:`schema` in the top level :field:`meta` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      **Note**: This field is the standard facility in JSON:API to communicate a response schema.
    It overlaps in function with the field :field:`schema` in the top level :field:`meta` field.
```
